---
layout: post
title: "DBC Experience"
description: "What I learned at my time in Dev Bootcamp"
category: Personal
tags: [post, personal, blog, dbc]
imagefeature: sangeh-monkey-forest-10.jpg
comments: true
share: true
---

"Congratulations! You've been accepted into Dev Bootcamp NYC!"

I had no idea what to expect of this experience. All i know is that I had to go into it open minded. I was scared. I dropped out of college so I could pursue programming (a long epic about destiny). I was betting on myself and my capabilites. Hoping that I'd find something that I love and am great at.

After nine weeks of coding challenges at home (LA) and working 40-50 hours a week, I finally got on that plane and went to NYC to start school that Monday. That first week I spent 15 hours at school coding each day. And I wasn't even tired, I was pumped!

Dev Bootcamp is split into 3 phases, each 3 weeks long, each with their own assessment to pass. In the beginning of each phase I would feel dumb and useless with all the new material, but by the second week I somehow would be grasping the material. And by "somehow" I mean hours of coding/snacking/banging my head.

The way DBC is structured gives way to a new type of learning. One that I will carry with me forever as a programmer. And that is learning how to learn. Something I never learned in college or any earlier school. They always gave me books that had answers, tests that had questions I could google, or equations I could just throw into Wolfram Alpha. But outside of that I couldn't learn new ideas or ways of thinking. Follow up one google search with another and another until you understand a subject fully. They never taught me the value of blog posts, following news sites that aligned with my interests, or simply the right question to put into google.

I had struggled with teaching myself to program for awhile before I found DBC. And I'd go on the codeacademy websites, and take the lessons I could (that were free). But that only taught me syntax "sugga" and basic algorithm solving. But what about building a website or an application?

That's how DBC teaches you. Set a goal. A small application and just do it. Do what you can and ask for help when you hit a roadblock. Find the right language or framework to use. Research! And doing what I love - building something out of nothing.

DBC taught me to push myself. To not settle for just learning the syntax. To learn by doing  (funnily enough the motto of my university). I found something I love, and I won't stop trying be better at it.